Diagnostic Context Packet for New Session1. Project Architecture & Active StateKernel Type: Bare-metal, pre-emptive 64-bit x86_64 hobby kernel running on QEMU (-cpu max). Higher-Half Direct Mapping (HHDM) is securely mapped at 0xFFFF800000000000ULL.User Space Payload: Statically linked Newlib 4.x Standard C Library Shell binary (user_shell.elf) embedded inside the kernel via xxd -i.Toolchain Alignment: Both the kernel and the Newlib target archives (libc.a) are compiled using a clean, large code model configuration (-mcmodel=large -fno-pic -mno-red-zone), fully preparing the library for high 64-bit address execution space.Memory Mapping: The user program loads at virtual address 0x8000000000. The ELF loader successfully parses the segments, validates headers, and maps exactly 18 physical blocks into the process's private CR3 directory root using the explicit 0x1F leaf page table entries (PRESENT | WRITE | USER | UNCACHED).2. The Great Milestone Reached (What is Verified Working)The system call gateway and memory replication layer are officially operational! The trace log explicitly captures:text[USER LAND DIRECT] Assembly kernel trap successfully executed!
Use code with caution.Ring 3 Handoff: The scheduler successfully updates context_switch.asm, applies a pristine 64-bit RFLAGS mask (0x202), drops supervisor permissions, and enters unprivileged Long Mode Ring 3.Direct Kernel Trap: The user application successfully issues a manual syscall instruction using explicit register constraints.Cross-CR3 Data Intercept: The kernel's sys_write successfully grabs the high-memory pointer (0x8000000000 range), uses vmm_get_phys_from_cr3 to resolve the backframe from the running task's private directory tree, and flushes the text string perfectly onto the VGA screen!3. The Current System Breakdown LogsImmediately following that successful write printout, the kernel gets stuck in a massive infinite stream of empty system calls followed by a supervisor crash:textUnknown syscall: 0
Unknown syscall: 0
...
[TICK] PIT hardware forcefully preempted User Task PID 2 at RIP: 0x800000033F
[PREEMPT] Swapping Execution context from PID 2 to PID 1

=== GENERAL PROTECTION FAULT (#GP) ===
  Faulting RIP : 0xFFFFFFFF8010506F
  Code Seg (CS): 0x18
  Stack (RSP)  : 0xFFFFFFFF80271A68
  Error Code   : 0x0
Use code with caution.4. Diagnostic Technical AnalysisThe Unknown syscall: 0 Flood: The while(1) interaction loop inside user_shell.c calls read(0, &input_char, 1). Because no key is pressed, it enters the kernel's sys_read loop which enables interrupts (sti) and stalls waiting for a key via the hlt instruction.The Preemption Race: While the kernel is halted inside sys_read awaiting a key, the PIT timer hardware tick fires. The scheduler pre-empts the task and attempts a context switch to save registers.The Register Leak: Because the process was pre-empted inside the kernel system call path before sys_read could formalize an explicit return instruction, the saved CPU task register state is left holding a default error or blank return value of 0 inside RAX.The Infinite Spin: When execution resumes, the CPU pops back to user mode. The assembly loop interprets RAX = 0 as a completed system call that returned 0 bytes. The loop conditions skip the key processor block and instantly re-execute syscall without reloading RAX. This hammers the gateway with a loop of 0 values.The Final Supervisor #GP: This rapid-fire loop starvation overloads the task state structures. When the preemption tick executes its next switch cycle, it encounters a corrupted kernel stack frame or misaligned task pointer location inside the scheduling state machine, throwing the critical supervisor General Protection Fault (#GP) at 0xFFFFFFFF8010506F.5. Core Questions to Prompt the Next SessionTo break the loop and fix the preemption crash, present these exact structural design questions to the new session:"How must our pre-emptive task scheduler save, protect, and track the RAX register state of a Ring 3 user process when it is forcefully pre-empted inside an active block kernel system call handler (sys_read) waiting for a hardware interrupt?""How do standard x86_64 microkernels avoid register clobbering loops when a blocking read() system call loop returns control back to user land under automated timer thread preemption?"
